The Project Gutenberg eBook of Gay gods and merry mortals, by Robert J.
Shores

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Gay gods and merry mortals
       some excursions in verse

Author: Robert J. Shores

Release Date: December 29, 2020 [eBook #64170]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Charlene Taylor, Susan Carr and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The Internet
             Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GAY GODS AND MERRY MORTALS ***




                              GAY GODS
                                _and_
                            MERRY MORTALS




                            GAY GODS AND
                            MERRY MORTALS

                      SOME EXCURSIONS IN VERSE

                         BY ROBERT J. SHORES

                     [Illustration: (Colophon)]

                       BROADWAY PUBLISHING CO.

                              NEW YORK
                                1910




                          COPYRIGHT, 1910,

                                 BY

                          ROBERT J. SHORES




                          TITLES AND PAGES


  Proem                                                              7

  Actæon                                                             8

  Adonis                                                            10

  Proserpina                                                        13

  Anaxarete                                                         16

  Penelope                                                          18

  Sappho                                                            20

  Syrinx                                                            22

  Tithonus                                                          24

  Ariadne                                                           27

  Io                                                                29

  Dido                                                              32

  Daphne                                                            37




                     Gay Gods and Merry Mortals


                               PROEM.


      _Some ancient tales of Pagan days
        The author of this book relates
      Explaining how in divers ways
        The gods displayed their human traits;
          And how they oft in other years
          Set human beings by the ears._

      _Belike these rhymes recall to you
        The jingles of the poet Saxe;
      The poet here is Saxon, too,
        And so must needs relate his facts
          In such a way that they are clear
          And suited to the Saxon ear._

      _Some anecdotes which Homer told
        You’ll miss in this; but reader, pray
      Consider, what was good of old
        Would never pass the mails to-day.
          And hence this history belated
          Has been--well, slightly expurgated._




                               ACTÆON.

           _“He saw her charming, but he saw not half
            The charms her downcast modesty concealed.”_

                                                           --Thomson.


      Actæon, with the winding horn,
        Pursued the Chase in ardent youth
      And what he wore when he was born;
        (And little else, to tell the truth,
          For in those days of which I speak
          They just changed sandals once a week!)
          And as he wandered from the path,
          Chanced on Diana in her bath.

      All trembling, like a startled fawn,
        Upstarted then the Goddess chaste,
      Sprang from the pool the bank upon
        And donned her crescent in great haste,
          (For, to her credit be it said,
          She _did_ wear something on her head,)
          Then, the conventions satisfied
          Gazed on Actæon, haughty-eyed.

      Actæon tumbled in a trice
        That he had got himself in Dutch,
      But thought if quite polite and nice
        She would not mind the thing so much.
          So the poor fool in this fond hope
          Said, “Tell me, did you use Pear’s Soap?”
          Diana, vexed to hear the gag,
          Forthwith made Actæon a stag.

      The Moral is, if you should chance
        Upon a lady in the nude,
      Remember this sad circumstance,
        For she’ll get even if you’re rude;
          And conversation, if uncouth,
          May cost you dear in naked truth!




                               ADONIS.


      Dan Cupid with a broken shaft
        Had bent his grand-dad, Jove, quite double,
      And then, to cap the climax, laughed;
        And so he found himself in trouble;
          Up on that august lap was yanked
          And thoroughly and soundly spanked,
          Till Cupid saddened, sobered, sore,
          Wished that his wings had sprouted lower.

      Dan Cupid then in rage and grief
        Straightway set out to find his mother,
      Who stitched upon her evening leaf,
        (She swore she didn’t have another,
          Or, if she had, she still would swear
          She had none that was fit to wear.)
          And so the naughty youngster found her
          With leaves and sewing girls around her.

      When Venus heard her infant’s wail,
        In apprehension she besought him
      To tell her all his angry tale;
        Then to her breast she, breathless, caught him.
          And, as his tear-stained face she kissed,
          Upon an arrow scratched her wrist.
          So in her veins in this strange fashion
          Was introduced the germ of passion.

      Indignant at the godlet’s tale,
        She hastened to protest to Zeus,
      Her lovely cheek with anger pale,
        She was prepared to raise the deuce.
          But as Olympus’ mount drew near,
          She spied Adonis chasing deer.
          And in a moment from her head
          All thoughts of wrath and Cupid fled.

      Straightway she hitched her gentle team
        Of doves, and left her carriage standing,
      For this fair youth to her doth seem
        A hero, comely and commanding--
          Although in fact and eke in truth
          He was a simple country youth;
          And so it happened that the Queen
          Of Beauty found him shy and green

      Now, Venus, veteran at the game
        Of flirting, would not be denied;
      As goddesses can feel no shame,
        She soon was anchored to his side;
          Do what he would, he could not shake her,
          Go where he would, he had to take her;
          Until one morn upon the plain
          She found the fair Adonis slain.

      This story should a warning be
        To maidens bold who wish to woo,
      For if you seek your lover, he
        Most certainly will not seek you;
          All men may love, but just the same
          They would be hunters--not the game.
          Adonis, so the story saith,
          Was really simply boared to death!




                             PROSERPINA.

         “_Forth reaching to the fruit, she pluk’d, she eat;
           Earth felt the wound, and Nature from her seat
           Sighing through all her works gave signs of woe
           That all was lost._”

                                                            --Milton.


      On Aetna’s isle Dis Pluto drove
        His devil-wagon one fine day,
      And passing through fair Enna’s grove
        Beheld Proserpina at play;
          He asked, “Will you not take a ride?”
          “You’re very kind,” the maid replied,
          And stepped into his turn-out swell;
          And that was how she went to hell.

      For Pluto, whipping up his team,
        Sped on toward Tartarus in mirth,
      And when opposed by Cyane’s stream,
        He took a short-cut through the earth.
          Nor paused, nor drew his rein before
          He heard Cerberus’ welcome roar,
          And sniffed the smell of singeing soul
          By which he knew he’d reached his goal.

      Ceres, Proserpina’s mamma,
        Was almost crazed with grief and fear;
      (As to Proserpina’s papa,
        His name I never chanced to hear),
          She cursed for all that she was worth
          The crops and fruits of Mother Earth;
          “You’ll bear no fruit,” she told the Ground,
          “Until my Prossie has been found!”

      Jove, who beheld the farmer’s need,
        And saw the season’s crops all fail,
      Said, “This is Cereous, indeed,
        That fellow Dis should be in jail!”
          “I think,” said Juno, “’twere as well--
          It does no good to give him hell;”
          And so it might have been decreed
          But for one small pomegranate seed.

      In Hades Ceres’ daughter sweet
        Was offered luscious bread and jam,
      But she was much too cross to eat
        And even scorned the deviled ham;
          Until at last she made a slip
          And swallowed a pomegranate pip;
          Now, they who eat in hell--alack!
          To earth may never more come back.

      The Moral is--don’t take a chance
        Joy-riding with a strange chauffeur,
      Remember this sad circumstance
        Or you will get in trouble sure.
          If you _must_ go--don’t go alone,
          The devil hates a chaperone.
          So mind the pips and look alive--
          Dis Pluto often goes to drive!




                             ANAXARETE.


      In Cyprus dwelt Anaxarete,
        A maiden famous for her beauty,
      With disposition far from sweet,
        Who looked on flirting as a duty.
          ’Tis said she scarcely would despise
          At slaves and such to roll her eyes,
          ’Till most the men of Cyprus were
          In love, or half in love with her.

      Young Iphis was a worthy lad
        And born of parents poor but proud;
      He was a credit to his dad,
        Until one day while in a crowd
          He chanced a college chum to meet
          Out walking with Anaxarete;
          And when she rolled her lovely eyes
          Poor Iphis gasped in glad surprise.

      One glance, and Iphis was her slave,
        All other interests he forgot;
      Forgot to eat, forgot to shave,
        And wrote in rhyme a deal of rot
          To prove his heart was at the feet
          Of stony-cold Anaxarete;
          Who met his protests and his tears
          With cutting jests and crushing sneers.

      For Ana, as do all coquettes,
        So soon grew aweary of his wooing,
      And Iphis took to cigarettes,
        But still she answered “Nothing doing!”
          And added--insult ne’er forgotten!
          She thought his poetry was rotten;
          And finally to fix his place
          She slammed the door in Iphis’ face.

      When Iphis saw that all was past,
        And knew that he could call no more,
      He took a rope and made it fast
        And hanged himself before her door.
          And, when his funeral passed her place,
          She thought to mock his pallid face;
          But Venus, leaning from her throne,
          Had seen, and turned the maid to stone.

      At Salamis, her statue still
        Points to the Moral of this tale--
      That any maid who flirts to kill
        Is really quite beyond the pale.
          And as for lovers; let me say
          If she is bored, just go away;
          No gentleman, and this I know,
          Will hang about when he’s _de trop_!




                              PENELOPE.

            “_Good-nature and good-sense must ever join;
             To err is human, to forgive, divine._”

                                                              --Pope.


      Penelope, a Spartan maid,
        The brave Ulysses wooed and wed,
      She in a modest blush arrayed,
        He with a crown upon his head.
          Two hearts that beat as one--no tear
          Bedimmed their bliss for one whole year;
          At Ithaca they dwelt in peace--
          Not Ithaca, New York--but Greece.

      Alas! Scarce had been born their boy,
        An infant very fair and bright,
      When came a horrid war in Troy
        And papa had to go and fight.
          He left Penelope in tears--
          He went and stayed for years and years;
          And while away, I am afraid,
          He sometimes wooed another maid.

      In many lands he dwelt as guest
        Of ladies of exceeding beauty;
      Ulysses, it must be confessed,
        In flirting quite forgot his duty.
          He flirted here, he flirted there,
          In fact he flirted everywhere--
          With Calypso, Nausicaa, Circe--
          And he a man of family--Mercy!

      Penelope, dissolved in tears,
        Bewailed her spouse--the faithless Turk!
      And stood off suitors twenty years
        By doing endless fancy work.
          By day she made her stitches right,
          But pulled them out again by night,
          Until her husband, tired of larks,
          Came home and slew that bunch of sparks.

      The husband, even though he err
        And lead abroad a lively life,
      Dislikes, when he comes back to her,
        To find that others woo his wife.
          Ulysses lacked in morals--true,
          But she had quite enough for two--
          May Eros grant a wife to me
          As patient as Penelope!




                               SAPPHO.


      Sappho was pretty all agree,
        Some say that she was stately,
      You cannot prove it, though, by me--
        I haven’t seen her lately.
          In fact, I do not now recall
          I ever saw the girl at all.
          So we must take Dame Rumor’s word
          That Sappho was, indeed, a bird.

      Now, Sappho in her younger years,
        Was wooed by men a-plenty,
      And setting suitors by the ears
        Amused her much at twenty.
          She swore she’d not, at twenty-five,
          Accept the nicest man alive,
          And laughed to scorn the ardent Greek
          Who sought to kiss her damask cheek.

      But Sappho finds as years roll on,
        As oft a maid discovers,
      That when a maiden’s youth is gone,
        Gone also are her lovers.
          No suitor hangs about her door
          To wait her coming as of yore;
          And what is worse than all above--
          Just at this stage she falls in love.

      Just what she does, if tales are truth,
        (Fie on that rascal Cupid!)
      Is to select a verdant youth,
        A handsome boy, but stupid!
          She tries her best to win his heart
          With all her once unfailing art,
          But finds--ah, Eros! think of that!
          That Phaon thinks her old and fat.

      Poor Sappho keenly feels the shame
        Of love quite unrequited,
      And though she knows herself to blame,
        She feels her life is blighted.
          And so when some one tells her if
          She will jump off a handy cliff
          ’Twill cure her of her love and dumps--
          She rushes out--ah! ah--she jumps!

      Ah, reader, let us pause right here
        To drop a tiny, briny tear;
      Alas! Alack! Oh, woeful sight--
        It cured her of her love, all right!
          Fair maidens, heed this circumstance--
          Don’t jump off cliffs--jump at your chance!




                               SYRINX.

           “_Poor nymph--poor Pan--how he did weep to find
            Naught but a lovely sighing of the wind
            Along the reedy stream; a half-heard strain,
            Full of sweet desolation, balmy pain._”

                                                             --Keats.


      In Greece there dwelt in days gone by
        A maiden huntress, passing fair,
        Who lived beneath the open sky
      And dearly loved the open air.
        Although it really seems a shame
          To call a lady such a name,
          This lovely nymph was called, methinks,
          S-y-r-i-n-x, Syrinx.

      Syrinx, while following the Chase,
        Was seen one day by ardent Pan,
      A god of most repulsive face,
        A sort of burlesque on a man.
          If we can trust what ancients wrote,
          Poor Pan was really half a goat--
          Not like the Peter Pan to-day
          The Misses Chase and Adams play.

      When Pan began swift to pursue,
        The maiden in her terror fled,
      (I cannot blame her much, can you?)
        And ran ’till she was almost dead;
          But friendly spirits in a stream
          Had heard and understood her scream,
          And they had changed her in a wink
          To reeds upon the river’s brink.

      The god, though thwarted in his scheme
        To win the nymph, was not dismayed.
      He plucked the reeds beside the stream
        And from them a “Syrinx” he made.
          The shepherd’s pipes--so came to man
          The music of the Pipes o’ Pan.

      The Moral? There is none; you see
      Pan was, as poets all agree,
      A most _immoral_ deity!




                              TITHONUS.


      Tithonus, royal prince of Troy,
        All mortal maidens’ beauty scorning,
      Chose for his love, presumptuous boy!
        Aurora, goddess of the morning.
          To her he wrote his royal rhymes,
          For her he saved his royal dimes;
          So well, indeed, he played his part,
          He won at last the goddess’ heart.

      Aurora, wise as gods must be,
        Was well aware that all men perish,
      And knowing this she bent the knee,
        (What won’t we do for those we cherish!)
          And thus she prayed to Jove on high:
          “Oh, _please_ don’t let Tithonus die!”
          And this, the whole of her endeavor--
          That Tithy, dear, might live forever.

      Now, Jove, although a deity,
        Was very fond of mortal ladies,
      And more than once, he, even he,
        Had grieved to see them go to Hades.
          “I quite agree with you,” he said,
          “Tithonus would be dull if dead.
          So be content, I, even I,
          Decree Tithonus shall not die!”

      Aurora, full of love and joy,
        Laughed out in Pluto’s face of gloom,
      And hastened off to tell her boy
        That she had saved him from the tomb.
          But, ah, how foolish to forget
          One other evil to be met!
          ’Tis sad to say, but must be told,
          She quite forgot he might grow old.

      Grow old he did, as most men do,
        Grew gray and bald and round of tummy;
      Grew deaf, grew cross and crabbed, too;
        Grew bent and wrinkled like a mummy.
          “Oh, Gee! Oh, Fudge! My Sakes! Good Lands!
          What’s this I’ve got upon my hands?”
          Aurora cried, nor gave a hang
          Who heard her use such vulgar slang.

      “Alas!” she cried, “is it decreed--
        And it is even right and proper?
      That I forever more should feed
        A foolish, mulish old grasshopper?”
          Tithonus hopped--for, you must know
          That what a goddess says is _so_!
          Tithonus, stricken but resigned,
          Hopped out of sight and out of mind.

      The Moral is--that age and youth
        Have aye been illy yoked together,
      For love cannot survive, in truth,
        A prolonged spell of wintry weather.
          So, when you hear your lady sigh:
          “Alas! My Love will _never_ die!”
          Just heed Aurora’s hint, I say,
          And hope no more--but hop away!




                              ARIADNE.

            “_Fool, not to know that love endures no tie,
             And Jove but laughs at lover’s perjury._”

                                                            --Dryden.


      The Minotaur, a horrid beast
        Which made its food of maidens fair
      And handsome youths, to say the least
        Had given Athens quite a scare.
          Since Athens sent each year to Crete
          A batch of folks for him to eat;
          ’Till on King Minos Athens soured,
          For no one likes to be devoured.

      Just as the folks of Athens had
        Prepared to risk their all in war,
      Young Theseus, to the King, his dad,
        Proffered his services and swore
          That he would go to Crete and slay
          The Minotaur without delay;
          And so with helmet-box and grip
          He started on the fateful trip.

      Now, Minos had a daughter fair,
        Who was humane as well as Cretan,
      And all in all, she did not care
        To see the handsome stranger eaten.
          So she resolved that she would aid
          Young Theseus in his escapade,
          Although she knew her royal dad
          Would certainly be hopping mad.

      The Minotaur, King Minos kept
        Within a sort of mystic maze,
      And in those corridors, unswept,
        A man might wander, lost, for days.
          And Ariadne’s scheme, in fine,
          Was just to take a ball of twine
          And let the youth unroll the thing
          And so be guided by the string.

      All went as planned--oh, lucky star!
        The sword of Theseus soon was wet,
      And slaughtered was the Minotaur;
        The king had lost his gruesome pet.
          The lovers fled the monarch’s wrath
          But even on the homeward path
          The hero, bored to hear her weep,
          On Noxas left her fast asleep.

      The Moral is--you should not string
        Young men, unless you know them well;
      For love is an uncertain thing
        And strange young men, however swell,
          If loosely tied and quickly bored,
          Will quit you of their own accord.




                                 Io.


      Io and Jove were holding hands
        One day beside a sylvan stream
      And drawing hearts upon the sands--
        Epitome of Love’s young dream!
          Fair Io murmured, “On my life,
          Why took you Juno for your wife?
          The ox-eyed Juno! In good sooth
          Peroxide would be nearer truth!”

      “Tut-tut!” said Jove, “you should not speak
        So slightingly of my good spouse;
      She has been busy all this week
        Up on Olympus cleaning house.
          And while she sweeps, I’ve naught to do
          But stay here making love to you!”
          “She would do well,” the maid replies,
          “To sweep the dust from out her eyes.”

      Alas for Io! Juno heard
        Her idle words within the hour;
      Some gossip of a bee or bird
        Repeated them from flower to flower,
          Until ’twas whispered by the leaves
          At Juno’s threshold--“Jove deceives!”
          “Deceived again?” she cried in rage;
          To see what happened, turn the page.

      Or, if the printer can find room
        To print another line on this,
      I’ll state that Juno heard a boom
        Of thunder--which is when gods kiss.
          And hurried angrily to where
          She thought to find the erring pair;
          But reaching there she saw, I vow,
          No maiden, but a heifer cow!

      For Jove, grown wise in other years
        In which he got his just deserts,
      Was ever pricking up his ears
        To hear the swish of Juno’s skirts.
          So, when he heard her on his trail,
          He made his hat a milking pail
          And changed poor Io, trembling now,
          Into the semblance of a cow.

      But Juno was not quite a fool
        And saw at once her husband’s trick,
      And, though appearing calm and cool,
        Resolved to make that heifer sick.
          “A lovely cow!” cried she. “Divine!
          I cannot rest ’till it is mine!”
          Jove cleared his throat and smoothed his vest
          But had to grant his wife’s request.

      Alas for Io! Juno sent
        A gad-fly which beset her sore,
      And drove her--which was the intent--
        From sea to sea and shore to shore.
          To Egypt and the Barbadoes,
          Perhaps to Iowa--who knows?
          The gad-fly followed where she went
          And stung her to his heart’s content.

      And so it happens, even now,
        Although she vainly tries to grab it,
      The gad-fly stings the gentle cow--
        He keeps it up from force of habit.




                                DIDO.

        “_Up, then, Melpomene! the mournfulest Muse of Nine,
         Such cause of mourning never hadst afore;
         Up, grislie ghostes! and up, my rufull rhyme!_”

                                                           --Spenser.


      “On such a night,” as Shakespeare once remarked,
        On such a night as lovers love to spoon,
      Aeneas in his cockleshell embarked
        And left poor Dido weeping ’neath the moon;
          A palm-leaf in her hand, as Shakespeare said,
          The crown of ancient Carthage on her head;
          ’Twas thus Aeneas jilted the fair dame
          And put the chivalry of Greece to shame.

      Fair Dido, to go back a little way,
        Had fled the vengeance of her brother’s ire,
      Who slew her wealthy husband one fine day
        And chased his widowed sister out of Tyre;
          Pygmalion was the name he bore at court,
          Though Dido always called him “Pyg” for short;
          Methinks the greedy nature of the youth
          Made Dido’s nickname fit him well in truth.

      Arriving, then, on Afric’s sunny shore
        With some few friends who followed in her train,
      She built herself some houses and a store,
        Laid out a street and called it Lover’s Lane.
          And since the town was hers, none could gainsay
          Her right to royal rule and social sway;
          And so it is quite easy to be seen
          How, when Aeneas came, he found her queen.

      Aeneas and some refugees from Troy
        Were wandering about uncharted seas;
      Aeneas had a cold--unlucky boy!
        (’Twould wring your heart to hear his mournful sneeze!)
          In fact, they all were troubled as to nose,
          Clad as they were in lightest marching clothes;
          So when they came at last to Dido’s land,
          They were a sick and sorry-looking band.

      “Not unacquainted with distress,” she said,
        “I’ve learned to succor all the down and out;”
      Straightway she had them all tucked into bed,
        And caused her heralds in the street to shout:
          “Queen Dido seeks a sovereign cure for chills,
          Bring mustard plasters, poultices and pills;
          The victor she’ll reward and make his name
          A synonym for fortune and for fame.”

      As always, when incentive is supplied,
        Some pharmacist got busy on the spot,
      Made little pills with quinine stuffed inside;
        She made him rich, but famous he is not.
          We take them now, but who is there can tell
          The doctor who first served mankind so well?
          But let us haste--this yarn, beyond all doubt,
          Grows dull apace, and slow, and long-drawn-out.

      To cut it short; she loved him; he loved her;
        He stuck around; she made him quite at home;
      The two were quite domestic I infer
        Until Aeneas took a boat for Rome.
          Rome wasn’t there--but what cared he for that?
          ’Most any town will do to dodge a flat;
          Aeneas felt that he could love that spot,
          Where’er it be--so be Dido was not.

      Dido, deserted, built a funeral pyre,
        On which she mounted with a wicked knife;
      She bade a servant set the thing afire,
        And with the dagger put an end to life.
          So perished Dido; died, oh died for love!
          So Dido died, as I have said above,
          Sweet Dido, loveliest lady of the land,
          On such a night--a palm-leaf in her hand!

      The Moral? This is not a moral tale.
        What do we learn from it? Well, I should say
      We learn that merry widows sometimes fail,
        And cutting didoes doesn’t always pay.




                               DAPHNE.


      Fair Daphne was a modest miss,
        A convert of the “Kiss Not” fad,
      Who swore no man should know her kiss,
        Unless it be her dear old dad.
          E’en as a tot it caused her grief
          To play at “Drop the handkerchief”;
          She called each youthful suitor, “Brute!”
          Who offered her a chaste salute.

      In vain her father bade her wed,
        In vain he urged, in vain entreated;
      She only shook her pretty head,
        And all his arguments defeated.
          “Talk not of men,” she said. “To me,
          Diana’s priestess I would be,
          And range the woods, heart-free, foot-loose,
          To kill the chipmunk and the moose.”

      “Ah, well!” he sighed (It is a shame,
        And rather mars this graceful verse,
      I cannot rhyme his beastly name),
        “Ah, well! Perhaps you might do worse.
          I longed for grand-sons, but”--a sigh--
          “The cost of living sure is high;
          I’m tired of fish and long for liver!”
          Her pa, Peneus, was a river.

      And so it happened, Daphne did
        Devote her days unto the Chase;
      Whenever she saw a man, she hid;
        Nor would she show her pretty face
          To any man except her father;
          A modest little maiden? Rather!
          So modest she--she would not flirt
          Her dainty little hunting skirt!

      Though best-laid plans of mice and men
        May go astray; no mouse, no man,
      Can hope to bring the wit in play
        That e’en the dullest godling can.
          For gods beat human folks all hollow--
          Especially the god Apollo;
          Apollo, who was far from stupid,
          Had heard of Daphne from Dan Cupid,
          And he resolved that he would see
          How true young Cupid’s tale might be.

      He laid in wait and spied the maid,
        Who tripped along the woodland path,
      In haste and somewhat disarrayed,
        Intent upon her evening bath,
          Not dreaming that a soul was near,
          Until upon her startled ear
          There broke a single love-lorn sigh,
          Which warned her that the god was nigh.

      Then like a startled fawn she fled,
        The grass scarce bending ’neath her feet,
      Her hair out-streaming from her head,
        Her face as pale as any sheet.
          And as she fled the god pursued,
          (A most ungentle act, and rude!)
          And gained, and gained, and gained so fast,
          She thought her breath must fail at last!

      “Help! Help!” she cried. “Peneus, aid
        Your daughter--save, oh, save me now!
      So weary and so sore afraid!”
        And in a moment on her brow
      Some tiny twigs began to grow,
        Her feet took root--for, you must know,
          Her father, by divine decree,
          Transformed his daughter to a tree!

      “Ah!” sighed Apollo, “what is this?
        My tree! You can’t escape me now!”
      Upon her trunk he pressed a kiss--
        Poor Daphne blushed in every bough;
        “You have,” said he, “a lovely limb;”
      (Say, honest, I’m ashamed of him!)
        How sad to see a perfect lady
        Become a character so shady!

      The Moral is--be careful how
        You dress when you go out to swim;
      Poor Daphne might be hunting now,
        Instead of wearing trunks for him!




      [Illustration]

      HERE ENDETH

      [Illustration]

      THIS LITTLE BOOK

      [Illustration]

      OF

      [Illustration]

      PAGAN POEMS

      [Illustration]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GAY GODS AND MERRY MORTALS ***

***** This file should be named 64170-0.txt or 64170-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    https://www.gutenberg.org/6/4/1/7/64170/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

